---
layout: project
title:  Studies on Human Behaviour - 2024
permalink: /documentation/shb/
---

# Studies on Human Behaviour - 2024

## Rationale for a new dataset
The data uploaded on the website was collected within the scope of the "Studies of Human Behaviour" exam in the year 2024.
It consists of timed diaries and mobile phone sensors data, acquired from a single person (myself) over the course of 10 days through the LiveMe application.
The raw data was then elaborated and filtered to obtain a selected dataset to perform some basic analysis of factors impacting mood, mood change and answer delay.

## Method
The data was collected through a Fairphone 5G with Android 14 operating version, from 01/10/24 to 10/10/24. The original collection span was supposed to last until 22/10/2024, but after an Android security update the application stopped working and it was not possible to continue.
All sensors were switched on for the whole duration of the collection and all possible authorizations were given to the application.
Timed diaries were sent every half an hour, but not always answered instantly.

## Data Records
All data records consist of parquet files, where each row corresponds to a timestamp in the collecion. The frequency changes based on the dataset. 

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Airplane Mode Event
Every time the airplane mode is switched on or off, collects a true/false string.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Application Event
Every 5 seconds, collects the name of the application running in the foreground.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Battery Charge Event
When the phone is under charge or taken off charge, collects a true/false string and the type of charger.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Battery Monitoring Log
Every minute collects the level of the battery unless it is 20% or lower.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Bluetooth
Every millisecond collects new bluetooth devices in the surroundings, both normal and low-energy.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Cellular Network
Every second collects signal strength and type of cell to which the phone cellular network is connected.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Doze
When the phone switches on or off battery saving mode, collects a true/false string.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Location
Collects gps location, passive location (when an application that uses the location is used), and network location in terms of latitude, longitude, altitude, bearing and speed.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Music
When music is played or stopped on the phone, collects a true/false string.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Notification
Whenever a notification is received by the phone or dismissed by the user, collect information about the notification.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Ring Mode Event
When the phone mode is switched between normal, silent and vibrate, collects a string of the mode being activated.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Screen
At milliseconds rate, collects whether the phone screen is on or off through a string.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Step Counter Event
Every 100 steps taken from last phone power on, collects the total number of steps.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Step Detector Event
Collects an entry for every step taken by the user.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Touch
Collects an entry every time the screen is touched.

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Wifi
Collects ssid, bssid of the wifi cell the phone is connected to and a true/false string

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Wifi Networks Event
At milliseconds rate, collect informations about all WiFi networks available. 

#### 2024-Shb-Trento-Timediary
Every entry is a time diary or morning/evening question answer. Contains information on when the notification was sent, when it was answered, the time of the notification, whether a break status was on and answer to questions:
- What are you doing?
- Where are you?
- With whom are you?
- What is your mood?

  Plus some subquestions conditioned on specific answers.


## Validation

The section describes the value and the validity of the datasets (e.g., the percentage of missing data is low, all timediaries were answered), and possible limitations (e.g., the initial survey collecting demographics has not been completed).

Examples:
- By looking at the documentation generated by the data preparation pipeline (e.g., codebooks), did you detect some problem in the data (e.g., columns with a high percentage of missing values, sensors with little or no data,...)?

- Were there problems during the data collection and/or preparation? Did they impact the quality of the data? Did you address them? Examples: 
    - I usually turn off the smartphone when I perform sports activities; thus, there is no data in that periods of time;
    - the step counter does not have data because the current operating system version does not support it.

## Conclusion and comments

This section outlines the final considerations of the project, observations, and limitations of the work. If you want, you can include feedback about the project.

Examples:

- Which analysis would you like to perform on this data (e.g., investigate which activities during the day impacted your mood in the evening)?
- Which other types of data would you like to collect or produce to perform the analysis?

- What and why would you change in the data collection design to increase the quality of the dataset? (e.g, additional sensors, more/less questions, shorter data collection period)


## Information about this template

### Useful references

This template is an adaptation of these guidelines on how research datasets are described:

- [IMWUT Dataset Papers](https://dl.acm.org/journal/imwut/dataset-papers-guidelines)
- [Scientific Data - Nature](https://www.nature.com/sdata/publish/for-authors)

Dataset paper example: [GLOBEM: Cross-Dataset Generalization of Longitudinal Human Behavior Modeling](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3569485)

### Technical details about this webpage
This document is written in Mardown. [Here](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) you can find the basic syntax. Once saved, GitHub automatically converts this file into a html page.
